docs: improve by adding teardown and examples (#23470)
microsoft/playwright: docs/src/test-global-setup-teardown-js.md

title: "Global setup and teardown"
---

> There are two ways to configure global setup and teardown: using a global setup file and setting it in the config under [`globalSetup`](#configure-globalsetup-and-globalteardown) or using [project dependencies](#project-dependencies). With project dependencies, you define a project that runs before all other projects and a teardown project that runs after the dependencies. This is the recommended way to configure global setup as with Project dependencies your HTML report will show the global setup, trace viewer will record a trace of the setup and fixtures can be used.

Reviewer: I'd drop the `and a teardown project that runs after the dependencies` since it's not really clear.

From the `teardown` project point of view, it runs after the **dependant** projects of the associated `setup`. 

It's hard to formulate when the teardown runs from the point of view of some other dependent project.

[Project dependencies](./api/class-testproject#test-project-dependencies) are a list of projects that need to run before the tests in another project run. They can be useful for configuring the global setup actions so that one project depends on this running first. Using dependencies allows global setup to produce traces and other artifacts.

### Setup

First we add a new project with the name 'setup'. We then give it a [`property: TestProject.testMatch`] property in order to match the file called `global.setup.ts`:

```js title="playwright.config.ts"
import { defineConfig } from '@playwright/test';

export default defineConfig({
  projects: [
    {
      name: 'setup',
      testMatch: /global.setup\.ts/,
    },

>     {

Reviewer 2: You should comment these curly brackets as well

      use: { ...devices['Desktop Chrome'] },
      dependencies: ['setup'],
    },
  ]
});
```
### Setup Example

This example will show you how to use project dependencies to create a global setup that logins into an application and saves the state in storage state. This is useful if you want to run multiple tests that require a sign sign-in state and you want to avoid login for each test.

> The setup project will write the storage state into an 'auth.json' file in a '.auth' folder inside the playwright folder. By exporting a const of `STORAGE_STATE` we can then easily share the location of the storage file between projects with the [`StorageState`](./test-use-options#basic-options) method. This applies the storage state on the browser context with its cookies and a local storage snapshot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The setup project will write the storage state into an 'playwright/.auth/user.json' file next to your playwright.config. By exporting a const of `STORAGE_STATE` we can then easily share the location of the storage file between projects with the [`StorageState`](./test-use-options#basic-options) method. This applies the storage state on the browser context with its cookies and a local storage snapshot.
```

  await expect(page.getByText('Hello, user!')).toBeVisible();

  await page.context().storageState({ path: STORAGE_STATE });
});
```

```js title="tests/menu.loggedin.spec.ts"
import { test, expect } from '@playwright/test';

test.beforeEach(async ({ page }) => {
  await page.goto('/');
});

test('menu', async ({ page }) => {
  // You are signed in!
})
```

For a more detailed example check out our blog post: [A better global setup in Playwright reusing login with project dependencies](https://dev.to/playwright/a-better-global-setup-in-playwright-reusing-login-with-project-dependencies-14) or check the [v1.31 release video](https://youtu.be/PI50YAPTAs4) to see the demo.

### Teardown

You can teardown your setup by adding a [`property: TestProject.teardown`] property to your setup project. This will run after all dependent projects have run.

First we add a new project into the projects array and give it a name such as 'cleanup db'. We then give it a [`property: TestProject.testMatch`] property in order to match the file called `global.teardown.ts`:

```js title="playwright.config.ts"
import { defineConfig } from '@playwright/test';

export default defineConfig({
  projects: [

>     {
>       // setup project
>     },
>     {
>       name: 'cleanup db',
>       testMatch: /global.teardown\.ts/,
>     },
>     {
>       // other project
>     }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // {
    //   setup project
    // },
    {
      name: 'cleanup db',
      testMatch: /global.teardown\.ts/,
    },
    // {
    //   other project
    // }
```

  ]
});
```
Then we add the [`property: TestProject.teardown`] property to our setup project with the name 'cleanup db' which is the name we gave to our teardown project in the previous step:

```js title="playwright.config.ts"
import { defineConfig } from '@playwright/test';

export default defineConfig({
  projects: [
    {
      name: 'setup db',

>       testMatch: /global.setup\.ts/,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      testMatch: /global\.setup\.ts/,
```

      teardown: 'cleanup db',
    },
    {
      name: 'cleanup db',

>       testMatch: /global.teardown\.ts/,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      testMatch: /global\.teardown\.ts/,
```

    },

>     {

Reviewer 2: comment style

```js title="global.setup.ts"
// seed the database with some data
```
Then create a `global.teardown.ts` file at the root level of your project. This will be used to delete the data from the database after all tests have run. 

```js title="global.teardown.ts"
// delete the data from the database
```
In the Playwright config file:
 - Add a project into the projects array and give it a name such as 'setup db'. Give it a [`property: TestProject.testMatch`] property in order to match the file called `global.setup.ts`.

 - Create another project and give it a name such as 'cleanup db'. Give it a [`property: TestProject.testMatch`] property in order to match the file called `global.teardown.ts`.

 - Add the [`property: TestProject.teardown`] property to our setup project with the name 'cleanup db' which is the name given to our teardown project in the previous step. Finally add the 'chromium' project with the [`property: TestProject.dependencies`] on the 'setup db' project.

```js title="playwright.config.ts"
import { defineConfig } from '@playwright/test';

export default defineConfig({
  projects: [
    {
      name: 'setup db',

>       testMatch: /global.setup\.ts/,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      testMatch: /global\.setup\.ts/,
```

      teardown: 'cleanup db',
    },
    {
      name: 'cleanup db',

>       testMatch: /global.teardown\.ts/,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      testMatch: /global\.teardown\.ts/,
```

      use: { ...devices['Desktop Chrome'] },
      testMatch: '**/*.loggedin.spec.ts',
      dependencies: ['setup'],
      use: {
        storageState: STORAGE_STATE,
      },
    },
    {
      name: 'logged out chromium',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Chrome'] },
      testIgnore: ['**/*loggedin.spec.ts']
    },
  ],
});
```

We then create a setup test, stored at root level of your project, that logs in to an application and populates the context with the storage state after the login actions have been performed. By doing this you only have to log in once and the credentials will be stored in the `STORAGE_STATE` file, meaning you don't need to log in again for every test. Start by importing the `STORAGE_STATE` from the Playwright config file and then use this as the path to save your storage state to the page's context.

```js title="global.setup.ts"
import { test as setup, expect } from '@playwright/test';
import { STORAGE_STATE } from '../playwright.config';

setup('do login', async ({ page }) => {
  await page.goto('/');
  await page.getByLabel('User Name').fill('user');
  await page.getByLabel('Password').fill('password');
  await page.getByText('Sign in').click();

> 

Reviewer: I'd add some condition to make sure the page actually signed in here,
e.g.

```ts
// Wait until the page actually signs in.
await expect(page.getByText('Hello, user!')).toBeVisible();
```

  await page.context().storageState({ path: STORAGE_STATE });
});
```

```js title="tests/menu.loggedin.spec.ts"
import { test, expect } from '@playwright/test';

test.beforeEach(async ({ page }) => {
  await page.goto('/');
});

test('menu', async ({ page }) => {
  // You are signed in!
})
```

For a more detailed example check out our blog post: [A better global setup in Playwright reusing login with project dependencies](https://dev.to/playwright/a-better-global-setup-in-playwright-reusing-login-with-project-dependencies-14) or check the [v1.31 release video](https://youtu.be/PI50YAPTAs4) to see the demo.

### Teardown

> You can teardown your setup by adding a [`property: TestProject.teardown`] property to your setup project. This will run after all dependencies have run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can teardown your setup by adding a [`property: TestProject.teardown`] property to your setup project. This will run after all dependent projects have run.
```

```js title="playwright.config.ts"
import { defineConfig } from '@playwright/test';

export default defineConfig({
  projects: [
    {
      name: 'setup db',
      testMatch: /global.setup\.ts/,
      teardown: 'cleanup db',
    },
    {
      name: 'cleanup db',
      testMatch: /global.teardown\.ts/,
    },
    {
      name: 'chromium',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Chrome'] },
      dependencies: ['setup db'],
    },
  ]
});
```

## Configure globalSetup and globalTeardown

You can use the `globalSetup` option in the [configuration file](#configuration-object) to set something up once before running all tests. The global setup file must export a single function that takes a config object. This function will be run once before all the tests.

Similarly, use `globalTeardown` to run something once after all the tests. Alternatively, let `globalSetup` return a function that will be used as a global teardown. You can pass data such as port number, authentication tokens, etc. from your global setup to your tests using environment variables.

:::note

> Using globalSetup and globalTeardown will not produce traces or artifacts. If you want to produce traces and artifacts, use [project dependencies](#project-dependencies).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using `globalSetup` and `globalTeardown` will not produce traces or artifacts. If you want to produce traces and artifacts, use [project dependencies](#project-dependencies).
```

      dependencies: ['setup'],
    },

>     {

Reviewer 2: Ditto I think empty project is not valid

      // other project
    }
  ]
});
```
### Setup Example

> This example will show you how to use project dependencies to create a global setup that logs into an application and saves the state in storage state. This is useful if you want to run multiple tests that require a sign in state and you want to avoid logging in for each test.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example will show you how to use project dependencies to create a global setup that logins into an application and saves the state in storage state. This is useful if you want to run multiple tests that require a sign sign-in state and you want to avoid login for each test.
```

> The setup project will write the storage state into an 'auth.json' file in a '.auth' folder inside the playwright folder. By exporting a const of `STORAGE_STATE` we can then easily share the location of the storage file between projects with the [`StorageState`](https://playwright.dev/docs/test-use-options#basic-options) method. This returns the storage state for the browser context and contains the current cookies and a local storage snapshot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The setup project will write the storage state into an 'auth.json' file in a '.auth' folder inside the playwright folder. By exporting a const of `STORAGE_STATE` we can then easily share the location of the storage file between projects with the [`StorageState`](./test-use-options#basic-options) method. This applies the storage state on the browser context with its cookies and a local storage snapshot.
```

  use: {
    baseURL: 'https://en.wikipedia.org',
  },
  projects: [
    {
      name: 'setup',
      testMatch: /global.setup\.ts/,
    },
    {
      name: 'logged in chromium',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Chrome'] },
      testMatch: '**/*.loggedin.spec.ts',
      dependencies: ['setup'],
      use: {
        storageState: STORAGE_STATE,
      },
    },
    {
      name: 'logged out chromium',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Chrome'] },
      testIgnore: ['**/*loggedin.spec.ts', '**/*.setup.ts']
    },
  ],
});
```

We then create a setup test, stored at route level of your project, that logs in to an application and populates the context with the storage state after the login actions have been performed. By doing this you only have to log in once and the credentials will be stored in the `STORAGE_STATE` file, meaning you don't need to log in again for every test. Start by importing the `STORAGE_STATE` from the Playwright config file and then use this as the path to save your storage state to the page's context.

```js title="global.setup.ts"
import { test as setup, expect } from '@playwright/test';
import { STORAGE_STATE } from '../playwright.config';

> setup('do login', async ({ page }) => {

Author: example simplified as per meeting discussion
